All right let's have a look at this example it's a much more complicated circuit.
We have one power supply and I have seven resistors and the goal now is going to be to simplify the
circuit so I could simply represent it like this the same 5 volt power supply and I'm going to combine
everything and write it all in terms of one single equivalent resistor and the purpose now is going
to be to find what is the value of the equivalent resistor.
Let's call this simply our equivalent and that's it.
Let's find what the value is.
So I have the individual values of each resistor here in my network.
Now we're going to apply the tools that we learned in order to find what the value of the equivalent
resistor is.
Because once you have a simple circuit like this you can immediately apply Ohm's law and find how much
current is actually flowing through the battery.
All right.
So in order to simplify this network kind of first sit back and just look at it a little bit and before
using any of the rules well start simplifying things that are kind of jump straight out at me for example
are six and seven I know are along the same branch.
Right whatever current flows through R6 has to be the same current that flows through R7.
Right.
So this here must be a series combination.
So both of those must be in series
another series combination that you should be able to see.
Is this one over here are two and are three whatever current flows through are two has to be the same
current that flows through three.
It has nowhere else to go.
Now other currents are not quite that straight forward whatever current flows through our four not necessarily
the same as the current flowing through our fiber through the other branches.
And you could say that for any other combination.
Okay.
So we have two series combinations both of those.
So let's start by simplifying those.
So what I'm going to do first is I'm going to combine our two and our three and if you remember the
series combination for our two and our three if they're in series all you do is you basically add them
up.
So we're going to call this our equivalent one is going to be our two plus our three R2 is four owns
our three is 8 4 plus 8 equals the 12
are equivalent to these I'm going to call our equivalent to the equivalent resistance of our 6 and our
7.
Both of those are in series with each other.
So it's simply our 6 plus R7 which gives me 2 plus 2.
So this is equivalent to a 4 ohm resistor.
All right.
Great.
So let's put that on the diagram and clean this up a little bit.
All right.
So here we've got this is a 4 ohm.
This here is a 12 ohm equivalent resistance.
OK.
Now what can I do.
Well now I would now start looking at probably try to combine our five and a four Omers this.
Now if I look at it let's put everything in a in a bubble over here I have our five which is four ohms
which is now in parallel with basically another 4 ohm resistor because I've combined our six and our
seven now they're represented by this 400 resistor.
So this is what it looks like on the outside.
So those are ones I can combine.
So the combination of our five and the four all McQuivey resistance that I called are equivalent to
will give me an equivalent resistance.
OK.
So let's call that our equivalent three are equivalent three is again this are.
These are going to be two resistors that are in parallel with each other.
So what you have to do is you multiply them and divided by the sum you get four times for divided by
eight that's 16 over eight which gives me 2 ohms.
So this everything in this outer box now is basically the equivalent of a two Omers is that combined
these these three resistors here are combined into a two arm resistor.
So let's just make that clear in our diagram over here.
OK.
So now what else can I simplify.
Well once you have that well now look what you can do with this 10 I have are four which is a 10 ohm
resistor which is now going to be connected to a single resistance right.
All of these three combine into a 2 ohm resistor.
So what you have now is 10 which is in series with a 2 ohm resistor so you can then combine this 10
with the next one with the two.
So if you draw the circuit at this point this is what it's going to look like.
So do an intermediate step here.
You have five
we have our fourth resistor are one.
What else.
I had already combined both of those in this first branch.
This gives me 12 and then I had what I had 10.
This was the resistance are four.
And now I've combined everything in this outer branch to give me an equivalent resistance of two
OK.
Now this should be pretty straightforward.
You should be able to combine the 10 and the two right away.
Now be careful these resistors here are in series with each other.
There is only a single branch that's connecting them.
So let's do one more equivalent resistance we can do is you can combine both of those
equivalent resistance of everything here.
Or are we now are equivalent for a lot of different steps here but that's it.
This is simply going to be the resistance are four plus my are equivalent three.
So this gives me 10 ohms plus two ohms so at the end that whole branch gives me 12 ohms OK.
So the next step you have a 12 ahome resistance.
This guy over here that is in parallel with a 12 ohm resistance.
So what can you do.
You can combine both of those.
Right.
So now we should have our equivalent five
again multiply them and divide by the sum.
In this case the numbers are getting big so gets a little bit trickier but 12 by 12 and divided by the
sum 12 plus 12.
And what you can do here is just simply factor out a 12 if you factor out a 12.
You're going to be left with one plus one which gives me two at the end 12 divided by two gives me 6
ohms.
So everything now in the blue is equivalent to a 6 ohm resistor.
So one last step.
How can I combine this forum resistor with everything here in the box.
Everything in blue is represented by 6 ohm resistor.
You simply have to add them up in series with one another.
So the last step you get is our equivalent.
We're up to six.
Gives me four ohms which is our one plus our equivalent five
so four plus six gives me ten ohms so all of that so we can simplify our network in terms of a 10 ohm
resistor.
So that would automatically mean if I apply Ohm's law to this circuit ohms law equals to our set my
equivalent resistance now is our equivalent multiplied by the current you'd automatically be able to
show that the current now is simply 5 over 10 which gives me half an amp
so tells me there is half an amp flowing through the battery that's the current flowing in the circuit
that's actually going to be the same current flowing through here.
It's actually the same current flowing through the resistance are one it has to be the same current
everywhere in this branch.
There can't be any other current.
Now once you get to this point now it's going to be different.
But using the equivalent resistance really is the simplest way to get the amount of current that flows
through the battery.
And also the going to be the same current flowing through any resistor that is in series with the battery.